Bl. Manuel Moreno and companions, priests O.P., martyrs († 1936)
St. Abel, archbishop († 764)
St. Memmie, bishop († 3rd/4th century)
St. Paris, bishop († 4th c.)
St. Cassian, bishop († 4th c.)
St. Nonna, wife and mother of saints († 374)
St. Emigdius, bishop and martyr († c. 303)
St. Venantius, bishop († after 535)
St. Viâtre, hermit († 6th c.)
St. Oswald, King of Northumbria and martyr († 642)
Bl. Francis Zanfredini (1270-1350)
St. Margaret of Cesolo, widow († 1385)
Bl. Pierre-Michel Noël, priest and martyr († 1794)

"Take courage! Do not be afraid!" (Mt 14:27)

[Our Lord:] "My children, whatever may befall you, remember that I am always with you... remember that, visible or invisible, appearing to act or appearing to sleep and forget you, I am always watching, I am everywhere, and I am all-powerful. Never have any fear, any anxiety: I am here, I am watching, I love you – you no longer doubt My love, I hope! –, I am all-powerful... What more do you need?...

Everything that happens to you happens by My permission or My will, by the permission or the will of My love, so that you may draw great good from it, great good that I Myself help you to draw from it by My grace... Therefore, fear nothing, since nothing can happen to you without My permission... do not grieve over anything, at least not with a sorrow that exceeds those instinctive, quick, and fleeting movements of sensibility, which are effects of nature and the senses; but conform your will to Mine...

Remember those storms that I calmed with a word, bringing such great tranquility after them... Remember how I supported Peter walking on the water... I am always as close to every person as I was then to you, and as willing to help them, to assist them in all that will be for the good of their soul. (...) Oh! in this life, the storm is continual, and your boat is always close to sinking... But I am here, and with Me it is unsinkable: distrust everything, and especially yourselves, but have complete trust in Me, which banishes anxiety..."

Book of Numbers 12:1-13.

In those days, because Moses had married an Ethiopian woman, his sister Miriam and his brother Aaron began to criticize him.

They said, "Does the Lord speak only through Moses? Does he not also speak through us?" The Lord heard.

– Now Moses was very humble, more humble than anyone else on the face of the earth.

Suddenly, the Lord said to Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, "Come out, all three of you, to the Tent of Meeting." So all three of them came out.

Then the Lord descended in a pillar of cloud and stood at the entrance to the Tent. He called Aaron and Miriam; both came forward, and he said to them:

"Listen carefully to My words: When there is a prophet of the Lord among you, I make Myself known to him in a vision, I speak to him in a dream.

But this is not so with My servant Moses; he is faithful in all My house:

I speak to him face to face, clearly and not in riddles; he sees the very form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against My servant Moses?"

The anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he departed.

As the cloud lifted from above the Tent, behold, Miriam was leprous, like snow. Aaron turned toward her, and behold, she was leprous.

Then Aaron said to Moses, "I implore you, my lord, do not hold against us the sin we have foolishly committed.

Let not Miriam be like a stillborn child, whose flesh is half consumed when it comes out of its mother's womb!"

So Moses cried out to the Lord, "O God, please heal her!"

Psalm 51(50):3-4, 5-6ab, 12-13.

Have mercy on me, O God, according to Your steadfast love;

according to Your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions.

Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity,

and cleanse me from my sin.

For I know my transgressions,

and my sin is ever before me.

Against You, You alone, have I sinned,

and done what is evil in Your sight.

Create in me a clean heart, O God,

and renew a right spirit within me.

Cast me not away from Your presence,

and take not Your Holy Spirit from me.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 14:22-36.

Immediately after feeding the crowd in the wilderness, Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowds.

After he had dismissed them, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone.

Meanwhile, the boat was already a considerable distance from land, buffeted by the waves because the wind was against it.

Shortly before dawn, Jesus went out to them, walking on the lake.

When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. "It's a ghost," they said, and cried out in fear.

But immediately Jesus spoke to them, "Take courage! It is I. Do not be afraid."

"Lord, if it is you," Peter replied, "tell me to come to you on the water."

"Come," Jesus said. Then Peter got down out of the boat and walked on the water to come to Jesus.

But when he saw the strong wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, "Lord, save me!"

Immediately Jesus reached out his hand and caught him. "You of little faith," he said, "why did you doubt?"

And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.

Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, "Truly you are the Son of God!"

When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret.

And when the people of that place recognized Jesus, they sent word throughout that whole region, and brought him all their sick.

They begged him to let them touch just the fringe of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed.

Bl. Manuel Moreno and companions, priests O.P., martyrs († 1936)

Tuesday of the 18th Week in Ordinary Time