St. Jane de Chantal, Foundress († 1641)
Bl. Bonaventure Garcia Paredes, Priest O.P., Martyr († 1936)
St. Euplus, Martyr († 304)
Ss. Martyrs Anicetus and Photius († 4th c.)
St. Muredach, Bishop († 5th or 6th c.)
St. Lelia, Virgin († 5th c.)
St. Herculan, Bishop († 6th c.)
Ss. Porcarius (Abbot) and Companions, Martyrs († c. 8th c.)
Bl. Charles Meehan, Priest O.F.M. and Martyr († 1679)
Bl. Innocent XI, Pope (240th) from 1676 to 1689
Bl. Peter Jarrige, Priest and Martyr († 1794)
Ss. James, Anthony, and Michael, Martyrs († 1838)
Bl. Victoria Diez y Bustos de Molina, Virgin and Martyr († 1936)
Bl. Flavius (Atila Argüezo Gonzalez), Religious O.H. († 1936)
Bbl. Sebastian Calvo Martinez and 5 Companions, Martyrs († 1936)
Bl. Anthony Perulles Estivill, Diocesan Priest († 1936)
Bl. Joseph Straszewski, Priest and Martyr († 1942)
Bl. Florian Stepniak, Priest O.F.M. Cap. and Martyr († 1942)
Bl. Charles Leisner, Priest and Martyr († 1945)

What Pleases God
Do you consider, my sisters, the pleasure God takes in contemplating a soul attentive to pleasing Him, careful to offer Him whatever it undertakes to do? Ah! it is unimaginable, my sisters, and one has great reason to say that it brought joy to God. Ah! yes, it is His joy, it is His good pleasure, it is His delight. It is like a child who takes care to bring everything he is given to his father; if someone gives him something, he has no rest until he has found his father: "Here, my papa; this is what I have; this was given to me; I did that." And this father takes an indescribable pleasure in seeing the docility of this child and these little marks of love and dependence.

Similarly, my dear sisters, it is so with God, and to a much greater degree. When a soul, from the morning, says to Him: "My God, I offer You all that will happen to me this day," and moreover, on the main occasions that arise for doing or suffering, she casts a glance towards His divine Majesty to say to Him in a silent language: "Behold, my God, this is what I am going to do for Your love; this encounter is vexing and hard to bear for me; but for Your love, nothing is impossible to me"; then, my daughters, God increases grace, as His goodness sees the use the soul makes of it, and if today she had the strength to overcome one difficulty, tomorrow she will have it to overcome another or several much greater and more troublesome ones.

Book of Deuteronomy 31:1-8.
Moses spoke these words to all Israel:

"I am now one hundred and twenty years old, and I can no longer lead you. The Lord has said to me, 'You shall not cross this Jordan!'"

"The Lord your God will go before you; He will destroy the nations you encounter and give you their territory. And Joshua will cross the Jordan at your head, as the Lord has said."

"The Lord will deal with the nations as He dealt with the kings of the Amorites, Sihon and Og, and their land, all whom He exterminated."

"The Lord will deliver them to you, and you shall treat them exactly as I have commanded you."

"Be strong and courageous; do not fear or be dismayed before them, for the Lord your God Himself goes with you; He will not fail you or abandon you."

Then Moses called Joshua and said to him in the presence of all Israel, "Be strong and courageous, for you are to go with this people into the land that the Lord swore to their fathers to give them, and you are to apportion it to them as their inheritance."

"The Lord Himself goes before you; He will be with you; He will never leave you nor forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed!"

Book of Deuteronomy 32:3-4ab, 7-9, 12.
For I proclaim the name of the Lord;

ascribe greatness to our God!

He is the Rock, His work is perfect;

for all His ways are justice.

Remember the days of old;

consider the years of many generations.

Ask your father, and he will inform you;

your elders, and they will tell you.

When the Most High gave the nations their inheritance,

when He separated the children of mankind,

He fixed the borders of the peoples

according to the number of the children of Israel.

For the Lord’s portion is His people;

Jacob is His allotted heritage.

The Lord alone guided him;

no foreign god was with him.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 18:1-5, 10, 12-14.
At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?"

And calling a child, He put him in the midst of them

and said, "Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven."

"Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven."

"And whoever receives one such child in My name receives Me."

"See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of My Father who is in heaven."

"What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?"

"And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray."

"So it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish."

St. Jane de Chantal, Foundress († 1641)

Tuesday of the 19th Week in Ordinary Time