St. Martha, († c. 81 AD)
Bl. Luc Martinez Mancebo and 6 companions, martyrs († 1936)
Bl. Urban II, Pope (157th) from 1088 to 1099
St. Lazarus, brother of St. Martha (1st c.)
St. Callinicus, martyr († unknown century)
St. Felix of Rome, martyr († unknown century)
Sts. Simplicius, Faustinus, Viatrix, Rufus, martyrs († 304)
St. Lupus, bishop († c. 478)
St. Prosper, bishop († 5th century)
St. Olaf, King of Norway and martyr († 1030)
St. William Pinchon, bishop († 1234)
Bl. Louis, Mancius, and Peter, martyrs († 1627)
Bl. Charles-Nicholas-Antoine Ancel, priest and martyr († 1794)
Sts. Joseph, Paul, John the Baptist, and Martha, martyrs († 1861)
Bl. Jean-Baptiste Egozcuezabal Aldaz, religious († 1936)
Bl. Joseph of Calasanz Marques, priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Lekë Sirdani, priest and martyr († 1948)

“He who believes in me will live”
            “He who believes in me, even if he dies, will live; and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die.” What does this mean? “He who believes in me, even if he dies like Lazarus, will live,” because God is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. Already concerning Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the long-dead patriarchs, Jesus had given the same answer to the Jews: “I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all live for him” (Lk 20:38). Believe, then, and even if you are dead, you will live! But if you do not believe, even if you are alive, you are truly dead. (…) From where does death in the soul come? From faith no longer being there. From where does the death of the body come? From the soul no longer being there. The soul of your soul is faith.

             “He who believes in me, even if he dies in his body, will have life in his soul, until the body itself resurrects to die no more. And everyone who lives in the flesh and believes in me, although he must die for a time in his body, he will not die for eternity, because of the life of the Spirit and the immortality of the resurrection.”

            This is what Jesus means in his reply to Martha (…) “Do you believe this?” “Yes, Lord,” she replied to him, “I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who has come into the world. In believing this, I have believed that you are the resurrection, I have believed that you are the life, I have believed that he who believes in you, even if he dies, will live; I have believed that he who is living and believes in you will not die for eternity.”

First Letter of Saint John 4:7-16.
Beloved, let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.

Whoever does not love does not know God, for God is love.

This is how God’s love was revealed among us: God sent his only Son into the world so that we might live through him.

This is what love consists of: it is not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.

Beloved, since God loved us so much, we also ought to love one another.

No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us.

This is how we know that we live in him and he in us: he has given us of his Spirit.

And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.

Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.

And we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love: whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in him.

Psalm 34(33):2-3.4-5.6-7.8-9.10-11.
I will bless the Lord at all times;

his praise shall continually be in my mouth.

My soul shall make its boast in the Lord;

let the humble hear and be glad.

Oh, magnify the Lord with me,

and let us exalt his name together!

I sought the Lord, and he answered me;

he delivered me from all my fears.

Look to him, and be radiant;

let your faces never be ashamed.

This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him

and saved him out of all his troubles.

The angel of the Lord encamps around

those who fear him, and delivers them.

Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good!

Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him!

Saints of the Lord, worship him:

nothing is lacking to those who fear him.

The rich have lost everything, they are hungry;

but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint John 11:19-27.
At that time, many of the Jews had come to comfort Martha and Mary concerning their brother.

When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him, while Mary remained seated at home.

Martha said to Jesus, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.

But even now I know that whatever you ask of God, God will give you.”

Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”

Martha replied, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day.”

Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, even if he dies, will live;

and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”

She replied, “Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, the one who is coming into the world.”

St. Martha, († c. 81 AD)

Sts. Martha, Mary, and St. Lazarus, Memorial
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@