St Stephen of Hungary, King († 1038)
                St Roch, Pilgrim († 1327)
                St Arsace, Hermit († c. 358)
                St Theodore, Bishop († 4th c.)
                St Armel, Hermit († 6th c.)
                St Frambaud, Monk then Cenobite († 6th c.)
                Bl. Ralph of la Fustaie, Priest and Founder († 1129)
                Bl. Lawrence, nicknamed the Cuirassed, Hermit († 1243)
                Bl. Angelus Augustine Mazzinghi, Carmelite Priest († 1434)
                Bl. John of Saint Martha, O.F.M. and Martyr († 1618)
                Bl. Simon Bokusai Kyota and companions, Martyrs († 1620)
                Bl. John-Baptist Ménestrel, Priest and Martyr († 1794)
                St Rose Fan Hui, Virgin and Martyr († 1900)
                Bl. Pierrette of Saint Joseph, Virgin and Foundress († 1906)
                Bl. Placid Garcia Gilabert, O.F.M. and Martyr († 1936)
                Bl. Henry Garcia Beltran, O.F.M. Cap. and Martyr († 1936)
                Bl. Gabriel (Joseph-Marie Sanchis), Religious († 1936)
    
God's Tenderness for the Little Ones

            My daughters, God takes great pleasure in seeing the service you render to little children, just as He takes pleasure in their little cooing sounds, even in their little cries and their complaints. Each of these cries touches God's heart with compassion. And you, my dear sisters, when, at their cry, you relieve them, providing them with the services they need, for the love of God and to honor the infancy of Our Lord, do you not please God? And is God not honored by the cries and complaints of these little children? Take heart, then, my daughters! Love well the service of these little children, through whose mouths God receives perfect praise. It is not I who say this, my sisters; it is the prophet: "Out of the mouths of little children sucking milk, your praise is perfect." Oh, my daughters, this is truly so, since Holy Scripture affirms it.


            See how happy you are to render service to these little creatures, who give perfect praise to God and in whom God's goodness takes such great pleasure, a pleasure somewhat like that of mothers, who have no greater consolation than to see the little actions of their little children. They admire everything and love everything. Thus God, who is their Father, takes great pleasure in all their little actions.


Book of Joshua 24:14-29.

In those days, Joshua had gathered all the tribes of Israel, and he said to them:

“Now, fear the Lord; serve Him with integrity and faithfulness. Put away the gods your fathers served beyond the Euphrates and in Egypt; serve the Lord.

“If it does not please you to serve the Lord, choose today whom you will serve: the gods your fathers served beyond the Euphrates, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. As for me and my household, we will serve the Lord.”

The people replied: “Far be it from us to abandon the Lord to serve other gods!

It is the Lord our God who brought us and our fathers up from the land of Egypt, from that house of slavery; it is He who, before our eyes, performed all these signs and protected us all along the way we traveled, among all the peoples through whom we passed.

And indeed, the Lord drove out before us all these peoples, as well as the Amorites who inhabited the land. We too will serve the Lord, for He is our God.”

Then Joshua said to the people: “You cannot serve the Lord, for He is a holy God, He is a jealous God, who will not forgive your rebellion or your sins.

If you abandon the Lord to serve foreign gods, He will turn against you, He will do you harm, He will destroy you, even after He has done you so much good.”

The people answered Joshua: “Oh yes! We will serve the Lord.”

Then Joshua said to the people: “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen to serve the Lord.” They replied: “We are witnesses.”

Joshua continued: “Now, put away the foreign gods that are among you, and turn your hearts toward the Lord, the God of Israel.”

The people answered Joshua: “It is the Lord our God whom we will serve, and to His voice we will obey.”

On that day, Joshua made a covenant for the people. It was in the city of Shechem that he gave them statutes and ordinances.

Joshua wrote all these things in the Book of the Law of God. He took a large stone and set it up under the oak that was in the sanctuary of the Lord.

He said to all the people: “Behold, this stone will be a witness against us, for it has heard all the words that the Lord has spoken to us; it will be a witness against you, to prevent you from denying your God.”

Then Joshua sent the people away, each to the portion of territory that was his inheritance.

After these events, Joshua, son of Nun, servant of the Lord, died at the age of one hundred and ten years.

Psalm 16(15):1-2a, 5, 7-8, 2b, 11.

Keep me, O God, for in You I take refuge.

I said to the Lord: “You are my God!

Lord, my portion and my cup: my lot depends on You.”


I bless the Lord who counsels me;
even at night my heart instructs me.
I keep the Lord always before me;
because He is at my right hand, I will not be shaken.

I have no other good than You.
You show me the path of life;
in Your presence there is fullness of joy;
at Your right hand are pleasures forevermore!

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 19:13-15.

Then children were brought to Jesus for Him to lay His hands on them and pray. But the disciples sternly rebuked them.

Jesus said to them: “Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for the kingdom of Heaven belongs to such as these.”

He laid His hands on them, and then He departed from there.

St Stephen of Hungary, King († 1038)

The Saturday of the 19th week of Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@