            St Alexis, Man of God († 5th C.)
                Bl. Thérèse of St. Augustine and 15 companions, martyrs
                Sts Scillitan Martyrs († 180)
                St Hyacinth, martyr († c. 3rd C.)
                Sts Justa and Rufina, virgins and martyrs († c. 287)
                St Marcellina, virgin († c. 398)
                St Theodosius, bishop († 6th C.)
                St Ennodius, bishop († 521)
                St Fredegand (Fregaud), Irish monk († 8th C.)
                St Kenelm, prince and martyr († 812)
                St Leo IV, pope (103rd) from 847 to 855
                St Colman, pilgrim for Christ and martyr († 1012)
                Sts Zoerard or Andrew and Benedict, hermits († c. 1031-34)
                St Hedwig, Queen of Poland († 1399)
                St Peter Liu Ziyu, martyr of the faith († 1900)
                Bl. Paul Gojdich, bishop and martyr († 1960)

Book of Exodus <font dir="ltr">3:13-20.</font>
In those days, Moses had heard the voice of the Lord from the bush. He said to God: “So I will go to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them: ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you.’ They will ask me what his name is; what shall I say to them?”

God said to Moses: “I AM WHO I AM. Thus you shall say to the sons of Israel: ‘He who has sent me to you is I AM.’”

God also said to Moses: “Thus you shall speak to the sons of Israel: ‘He who has sent me to you is THE LORD, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’ This is my name forever, and by this name I am to be remembered from generation to generation.”

Go, assemble the elders of Israel. You shall say to them: ‘The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, has appeared to me. He said to me: I have visited you and have seen how you are treated in Egypt.

I have said: I will bring you up out of the misery in Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey.’”

They will listen to your voice; then you shall go, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you shall say to him: ‘The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. And now, let us go a three days’ journey into the wilderness, to offer sacrifice to the Lord our God.’

But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless he is forced.

So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will perform in its midst. After that, he will let you go.”

Psalm <font dir="ltr">105(104):1,5,8-9,24-25,26-27.</font>
Give thanks to the Lord, proclaim his name, 

make known among the peoples his deeds;

remember the wonders he has done, 

his miracles, and the judgments he uttered.


He has remembered his covenant forever, 

the word he commanded for a thousand generations:

the promise made to Abraham, 

the oath he swore to Isaac.


God made his people very numerous 

and stronger than all their adversaries;

he turned their heart to hate his people, 

to deal craftily with his servants.


But he sent his servant Moses, 

and Aaron, whom he had chosen,

to show his wondrous signs, 

and perform his miracles in the land of Ham.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew <font dir="ltr">11:28-30.</font>
At that time, Jesus spoke and said: “Come to me, all you who labor and are burdened, and I will give you rest.

Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart; and you will find rest for your souls.

For my yoke is easy, and my burden light.”

St Alexis, Man of God († 5th C.)

Thursday of the 15th Week in Ordinary Time