St. Teresa Benedicta of the Cross, martyr († 1942)
Bl. Franz Jägerstätter, farmer and martyr († 1943)
St. Roman, martyr († c. 258)
St. Nathy, bishop and abbot († 6th c.)
St. Fedlin, bishop († 6th century)
Sts. Julian and his companions, martyrs († c. 729)
Bl. Falcus of Palena, hermit († c. 14th c.)
Bl. John of Salerno, priest O.P. († c. 1242)
Bl. John of Fermo, priest O.F.M. († 1322)
Bl. Richard Bere, Carthusian priest and martyr († 1537)
Bl. Claude Richard, Benedictine priest and martyr († 1794)
St. Candice Marie of Jesus, virgin and foundress († 1912)
Bl. Florentino Asensio Barroso, bishop and martyr († 1936)
BB. Ruben of Jesus and six companions, religious O.H. († 1936)
BB. Faustin Oteiza and Florentino Felipe († 1936)
Bl. William Plaza Hernandez, priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Germain, priest O.F.M. Cap. and martyr († 1936)
BB. Michael Tomaszek, Simon or Sigismund Strzalkowski, martyrs in Peru

High priest of the New Covenant
      Every human soul is in itself a temple of God: this opens up a vast and entirely new perspective for us. Jesus' life of prayer is the key to understanding the prayer of the Church. Christ participated in the divine service of his people, performed [in the Temple] publicly and according to the prescriptions of the Law... He established the closest relationship between this liturgy and the offering of his own person, and thereby gave it its full and true meaning, that of a homage of thanksgiving from creation to its Creator. By doing so, he led the liturgy of the Old Covenant to its fulfillment in that of the New Covenant.


      But Jesus did not only take part in the public divine service prescribed by the Law. The Gospels make even more numerous references to his solitary prayer in the silence of the night, on wild mountain peaks, in deserted places (Mt 14:23; Mk 1:35). Forty days and forty nights of prayer preceded Jesus' public life (Mt 4:1ff). He withdrew to the solitude of the mountain to pray before choosing his twelve apostles (Lk 6:12) and sending them on mission. At the hour on the Mount of Olives, he prepared to go to Golgotha. The cry he uttered to the Father in that most painful hour of his life is revealed to us in a few brief words. There his words... are like a flash of lightning that for an instant illuminates the most intimate life of Jesus' soul, the unfathomable mystery of his being as God-man and his dialogue with the Father.


      This dialogue certainly lasted his entire life, without ever interrupting. Christ prayed inwardly not only when he withdrew from the crowd but also when he remained among men.

Book of Hosea 2:16b,17b,21-22.
Thus says the Lord:

My unfaithful spouse, I will lead her into the desert, and I will speak to her heart to heart.

There, she will answer me as in the days of her youth, on the day she came out of the land of Egypt.

I will make you my spouse forever, I will make you my spouse in justice and in right, in faithfulness and tenderness;

I will make you my spouse in loyalty, and you will know the Lord.

Psalm 45(44):11-12,14-15,16-17.
Listen, my daughter, look and incline your ear;

forget your people and your father's house:

the king will be captivated by your beauty.

He is your Lord: bow down before him.


Daughter of the king, she is there, in her glory,

clothed in golden fabrics;

she is led, fully adorned, to the king.

Young women, her companions, escort her;


they are led amidst festive songs:

they enter the king's palace.

Instead of your fathers, your sons will rise;

throughout the earth you will make them princes.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 25:1-13.
At that time, Jesus told his disciples this parable:

“The kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.

Five of them were foolish, and five were wise:

the foolish ones took their lamps but did not take any oil with them,

while the wise ones took oil in jars along with their lamps.

As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and fell asleep.

At midnight the cry rang out: ‘Here’s the bridegroom! Come out to meet him!’

Then all the virgins woke up and trimmed their lamps.

The foolish ones said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil; our lamps are going out.’

The wise ones replied, ‘No, there won’t be enough for both us and you. Instead, go to those who sell oil and buy some for yourselves.’

But while they were on their way to buy the oil, the bridegroom arrived. The virgins who were ready went in with him to the wedding banquet. And the door was shut.

Later the others also came. ‘Lord, Lord,’ they said, ‘open the door for us!’

But he replied, ‘Truly I tell you, I don’t know you.’

Therefore keep watch, because you do not know the day or the hour.”

St. Teresa Benedicta of the Cross, martyr († 1942)

Feast of Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross (Edith Stein), virgin and martyr, co-patroness of Europe
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@