Blessed Augustine Kazotic, O.P. bishop and martyr († 1323)
Blessed Michael Remón Salvador, O.F.M. Conv. and martyr († 1936)
Saint Asprenos, bishop († 3rd century)
Saint Euphrone, bishop († after 475)
Saint Martin, hermit († c. 580)
Saint Peter, bishop († 1109)
Blessed Salvador Ferrandis Segui, priest and martyr († 1936)
Blessed Alfonso Lopez Lopez, O.F.M. and martyr († 1936)
Blessed Francis Bandres Sanchez, S.D.B. and martyr († 1936)

Consider the original equality of the human family!

            Men, when they hoard gold, silver, luxurious as well as useless clothing, diamonds and other similar things that give rise to war, discord, and tyranny, are seized by a foolish arrogance, close their hearts to the misfortunes of their brothers and do not even consent to leave them of their superfluity to give them enough to live. Stupid aberration!


            They do not realize at all that poverty and wealth, free condition—as we say—and servile condition, as well as other similar categories, arrived late among men and surged like epidemics at the same time as sin, of which they were the consequences. "But from the beginning it was not so" (Mt 19:8). In the beginning, the Creator left man free and master of himself, bound by a single commandment and rich with the delights of paradise. God willed this for all humankind, born of the first man. Freedom and wealth depended on the observance of a single commandment. Its violation led to true poverty and servitude.


            Since envy and disputes appeared with the cunning tyranny of the serpent who seduces us with pleasure and sets the boldest against the weakest, the human family has been torn into nations alien to one another. Avarice has supplanted natural generosity and relied on law to dominate with force.


            But you, consider the primitive equality and not the subsequent divisions, the law of the Creator and not that of the powerful. Help nature as best you can, honor original freedom, respect your person, protect your race from dishonor, succor it in its illnesses, console it in its poverty. Seek to distinguish yourself from others only by your goodness. Become God for the unfortunate by imitating divine mercy.


Book of Ecclesiastes 1:2; 2:21-23.
Vanity of vanities, says Qoheleth. Vanity of vanities! All is vanity!

One gains nothing from all the toil and straining with which one toils under the sun.
For all his days are full of sorrow, and his work is a vexation; even in the night his heart does not rest. This also is vanity.

Psalm 90 (89):3-4, 5-6, 12-13, 14, 17ab.
You turn us back to dust, and say,
“Return, O children of mortals.”
For a thousand years in your sight
are like yesterday when it is past,
or like a watch in the night.


You sweep them away; they are like a dream,
like grass that is renewed in the morning;
in the morning it flourishes and is renewed;
in the evening it fades and withers.


So teach us to count our days
that we may gain a wise heart.
Return, O Lord! How long?
Have compassion on your servants!


Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love,
so that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us;
prosper for us the work of our hands—
O prosper the work of our hands!

The Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Luke 12:13-21.
At that time, someone in the crowd said to Jesus, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”

But he said to him, “Man, who appointed me as your judge or arbiter?”

Then he said to them, “Beware! Have greed and avarice no part in your lives. For a person’s life does not consist in the abundance of possessions.”

And he told them a parable: “The land of a rich man produced abundantly.

And he thought to himself, ‘What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?’

Then he said, ‘I will do this: I will pull down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.

And I will say to my soul, “Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, be merry.”’

But God said to him, ‘You fool! This very night your life is being demanded of you. And the things you have prepared, whose will they be?’

So it is with those who store up treasures for themselves but are not rich toward God.”

Blessed Augustine Kazotic, O.P. bishop and martyr († 1323)
Letter of Saint Paul the Apostle to the Colossians 3:1-5, 9-11.
Brothers and sisters, if you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.

Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.

For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.

When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.

Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices,

and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator.

Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all.

Eighteenth Sunday in Ordinary Time

A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@