St Jean-Eudes, Priest and Founder († 1680)
Bl. Jordan of Pisa, OP Priest († 1311)
St Magnus, Bishop and Martyr († 2nd/3rd c.)
St Maginus, Martyr († c. 304)
St Timothy, Martyr († c. 305)
Saints Andrew, Tribune, and his Soldier Companions († c. 305)
St Sixtus III, Pope (44th) from 432 to 440
St Donatus, Priest and Hermit († 6th c.)
St Bertulph, Abbot († 639)
St Sebald, Hermit († 9th or 10th c.)
Bl. Bartholomew of Simeri, Priest and Abbot († 1130)
Bl. Guerric, Abbot († 1155)
St Leo II, Abbot († 1295)
St Louis, Bishop († 1297)
Bl. Angel, Monk and Hermit († 1313)
Bl. Pedro de Zúñiga, OESA and Companions, Martyrs († 1622)
Bl. Louis Flores, OP Priest and Martyr († 1622)
Bl. Hugh Green, Priest and Martyr († 1642)
St Ezekiel Moreno y Díaz, Bishop († 1906)
Bl. Francis Ibáñez Ibáñez, Priest and Martyr († 1936)
Bl. Thomas Sitjar Fortià, SJ Priest and Martyr († 1936)
Blesseds Elvira of the Nativity and 8 Companions, Martyrs († 1936)

You have called the poor to surround you, my God!
How divinely good you are, my God! If you had first called the rich, the poor would not have dared to approach you; they would have felt obliged to stay apart because of their poverty, they would have watched you from afar, leaving the rich to surround you. (...) How good you are! How you have chosen the right way to call all your children around you at once, without any exception! And what balm you have placed, until the end of time, in the hearts of the poor, the lowly, the disdained of the world, by showing them from your birth that they are your privileged ones, your favorites, the first called: those always called around you who desired to be one of them and to be surrounded by them from your cradle and throughout your life.


God has not tied salvation to science, to intelligence, to wealth, to long experience, to rare gifts that not everyone has received—no. He has tied it to what is within everyone's grasp, absolutely everyone's: the young and the old, people of all ages and classes, of all intelligence and all fortune. He has tied it to what everyone can give Him, with a little good will: a little good will, that is all it takes to win this heaven that Jesus ties to humility, to making oneself small, to taking the last place, to obedience, which he elsewhere ties to poverty of spirit, to purity of heart, to love of justice, to the spirit of peace. Let us hope, since by God's mercy salvation is so near us, in our hands, and a little good will is enough for us to obtain it.

Book of Judges 6:11-24a.
In those days, the angel of the Lord came and sat under the terebinth at Ophrah, which belonged to Joash of the Abiezrite clan. His son Gideon was threshing wheat in the winepress to keep it from the Midianites.

The angel of the Lord appeared to him and said, "The Lord is with you, mighty warrior!"

Gideon replied, "Pardon me, my lord! If the Lord is with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all the wonders our ancestors told us about? They said, 'Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?' But today the Lord has abandoned us and given us into the hand of Midian..."

Then the Lord turned to him and said, "Go in the strength you have and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Am I not sending you?"

Gideon replied, "Pardon me, my lord! How can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father’s family!"

The Lord answered him, "I will be with you, and you will strike down the Midianites as if they were but one man."

Gideon said to him, "If I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign that it is really you talking to me.

Do not leave this place until I come back to you. I will bring my offering and place it before you." And the Lord said, "I will stay until you return."

Gideon went in and prepared a young goat, and from an ephah of flour he made unleavened bread. He put the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot, then brought them out and presented them to him under the terebinth.

The angel of God said to him, "Take the meat and the unleavened bread, place them on this rock, and pour out the broth." And Gideon did so.

Then the angel of the Lord reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened bread. Fire flared from the rock, consuming the meat and the unleavened bread, and the angel of the Lord vanished.

When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the Lord, he said, "Alas, O Lord GOD! For I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face!"

The Lord said to him, "Peace! Do not be afraid. You are not going to die."

So Gideon built an altar to the Lord there and called it The Lord Is Peace.

Psalm 85(84):9, 11-14.
I will listen to what God the Lord says;

He promises peace to his people, his faithful ones—

but let them not return to folly.


Love and faithfulness meet together;

righteousness and peace kiss each other;

Faithfulness springs forth from the earth,

and righteousness looks down from heaven.


The Lord will indeed give what is good,

and our land will yield its harvest.

Righteousness goes before him

and prepares the way for his steps.

The Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 19:23-30.
At that time, Jesus said to his disciples, "Truly I tell you, it is hard for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of heaven."

Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God."

When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished and asked, "Who then can be saved?"

Jesus looked at them and said, "With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."

Peter answered him, "We have left everything to follow you! What then will be our reward?"

Jesus said to them, "Truly I tell you, at the renewal of all things, when the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for my sake will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit eternal life.

But many who are first will be last, and many who are last will be first."

St Jean-Eudes, Priest and Founder († 1680)

Tuesday of the Twentieth Week in Ordinary Time
A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@