St. Dominic de Guzman, priest and founder. († 1221)
St. Boniface Rodriguez Castro, virgin and founder. († 1905)
Saints Cyriacus, Largus, Crescentian and companions, martyrs († 306)
Bl. Vladimir Laskowski, priest and martyr († 1940)
Saints Secundus, Carpophorus, and 2 others, martyrs († c. 305)
Saints Victorinus, Severian, and 2 others, martyrs († c. 305)
St. Marinus, elder († between 303 and 311)
St. Eusebius, bishop († c. 462)
St. Severus, priest († 5th c.)
St. Mommole, abbot († 608)
St. Emilian, bishop († 9th c.)
St. Altmann, bishop († 1091)
St. Famianus, hermit († c. 1150)
Bl. John Felton, martyr († 1570)
Bl. Robert Bickerdike, martyr, († 1586)
Bl. John Fingley, priest and martyr († 1586)
St. Paul Ke Tingzhu, martyr († 1900)
St. Mary of the Cross, virgin and founder. († 1909)
Bl. Maria Margherita Caiani, virgin and founder. († 1921)
Bl. Antonio Silvestre Moya, priest and martyr († 1936)
Bl. Mary of the Child Jesus and companions, martyrs († 1936)

If only we had the good fortune to know the value of our soul!

My brothers, if only we had the good fortune to know the value of our soul, with what care would we not preserve it? Alas! We can never understand it enough! To wish, my brothers, to show you the greatness of a soul’s value: this is impossible for a mortal; only God alone knows all the beauties, the perfections with which He adorns a soul.



I will only tell you that all that God has created: heaven, earth, and all they contain, all these wonders are created in its favor. (…) This soul has, like God, the power to know, to love, and to determine itself freely in all its actions. This, my brothers, is the most beautiful praise we can give for the qualities with which God has adorned our soul, created by the three persons of the Holy Trinity and in their likeness. A spirit, like God, eternal for the future, capable of knowing the beauties and all the perfections of God as much as is possible for a creature; a soul, which is the object of the divine Persons’ delight; a soul, which can glorify God in all its actions; a soul, whose entire occupation will be to sing the praises of God for endless days; a soul, which will shine with the very happiness of God; a soul which has such freedom in all its actions that it can give its friendship, its love to whomsoever it pleases. (…)



Let us say it all in one word, my brothers: our soul is something so great, so precious, that only God alone surpasses it.

Book of Deuteronomy 4:32-40.
Moses said to the people of Israel:

“Ask now about the days of old, before your time, from the day God created man on the earth: Has anything so great ever happened, or has anything like it ever been heard of?

Has any people ever heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of the fire, as you have, and lived?

Or has any god ventured to go and take a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by trials, signs, wonders, and war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by terrifying deeds – as you saw the LORD your God do for you in Egypt?

You were shown all this so that you would know that the LORD is God; there is no other.

From heaven he made you hear his voice to instruct you. On earth he showed you his great fire, and you heard his words from out of the fire.

Because he loved your ancestors and chose their descendants, he himself brought you out of Egypt by his great strength,

to drive out before you nations greater and stronger than you and to bring you into their land and give it to you as an inheritance, as is now being done.

Know therefore today, and take it to heart, that the LORD is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is no other.

Keep his decrees and commands, which I give you today, so that you and your children may prosper and that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you for all time.”

Psalm 77(76):12-13, 14-15, 16, 21.
I remember the deeds of the LORD,

I recall your wonders of old;

I meditate on all your works,

and on your mighty deeds I ponder.


God, your way is holy!

What god is as great as God?

You are the God who works wonders;

you have displayed your might among the peoples.


With your mighty arm you redeemed your people,

the descendants of Jacob and Joseph.

You led your people like a flock

by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Matthew 16:24-28.
At that time, Jesus said to his disciples: “If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.

For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.

What profit would there be for one to gain the whole world and forfeit his life? Or what can one give in exchange for his life?

For the Son of Man will come with his angels in his Father’s glory, and then he will repay each according to his conduct.”

Amen, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.”

St. Dominic de Guzman, priest and founder. († 1221)

Friday of the 18th Week in Ordinary Time

A @@@ @@@ @@@ @@@